Please answer the following four questions:
1. What should you do before your virtual internship starts?

The best starting point is to conduct as much research as possible about the company. It is key to understand the company, and it is what the company would expect you to do. Look at their vision, mission and values. Understand what they want to achieve, how they want to achieve this and why they want to do this. This then allows you to start to see how you can add value to their company, by matching your skills to their needs. 
Another key area to research (which not everyone will be doing), are the key contacts you’ve been provided with. A good place to start would be LinkedIn – you could send a great personalised connection request explaining you will be starting your internship and would love to connect. Once connected, you can always ask for a call (voice or video) to introduce yourself – they might say no, but you’ve nothing to lose but a lot to gain if they say yes! If they say yes, then make sure you’ve read their profile and know some interesting facts about them to help you in your conversation.
The more you learn about the company and the people, the more connected you will feel to the internship opportunity and the team you will be working with. It can also prepare you well for any upcoming tasks. 

2. What should you do as soon as you start your virtual internship to build your internal networks?

As soon as you start, you need to be very proactive to get further introductions and build your network quickly. It is all too easy just to stick with the people that you will be directly working with and in contact with, but you need to look for opportunities to build your network wider than this.
You need to start by getting to know your own team and build the relationships there. But don’t be tempted to stop there. Ask to be introduced to people from other teams that you have an interest in finding out about. Don’t try to get introduced to the CEO, start at a more junior level as they will be more likely to connect and have time to share with you. The senior connections can come off the back of the junior connections at a later date. 
Search social media (LinkedIn especially) and find other people that work in the company, then you can reach out to them to connect. However, make the connection request personal and make sure you have a good and genuine reason to connect with them (and tell them this in the invite to connect). 
When you get introduced to new people, take an interest in them first – don’t just wade straight in with your technical question. People love speaking about themselves, so by inviting them to do this, you are helping to build rapport. This will create a good first impression, and the person is more likely to want to help you and to stay connected with you. 
To make sure you stay connected and informed, it is also a great idea to find out the key way that people connect, communicate and share updates. This will mean that you are using the correct communication channels in the correct way. Therefore, you shouldn’t be ‘out of the loop’ with any updates and they will be receiving the right updates from you too. 
It is a good idea to schedule regular catch ups with the right people and get them in your diary as early as you can. If they are already scheduled in your diary, they are more likely to happen. Where possible, use video calling for these, as this helps to build the relationships when you can see each other (as it feels like you’ve actually met). 

3. Once you’ve settled in, what can you do to continue to build your current virtual relationships?

If you’ve made a good first impression, you should have some great relationships formed by now. But don’t relax and think that you don’t have to do anything else, as there is still plenty of work to be done to keep those relationships strong. You need to continue to show an interest by talking about your future plans. Being passionate and curious about the future is a huge selling point to the company, so make sure you share it and show it to others.
Whilst sharing your passion and future plans with other, it is acceptable to ask for help (introductions to more people in the right areas, or advice on how to achieve your goal) and often you will be offered help without asking, if you have built a strong relationship. 
Ensure that you stay in contact with all your ‘internal’ network. This could be by having a virtual coffee together and having an informal catch up, or it could be via email, text or phone. It doesn’t matter how you do it, as long as it has a genuine intent to stay connected. If you are having a ‘social’ or informal catch up, make sure you don’t focus on work too much. Make it clear what the catch up is for and stick to it.
One of the most important things is to keep your promises – always do what you said you were going to do and do it on time! This will build up people’s trust in you and they will learn that they can rely on you. This is also good for your personal brand and creating the right impression. If you ever can’t deliver a task on time, then speak to the person this impacts as soon as possible to fully explain (with a very good reason) why this can’t be done. On the flip slide of this, don’t say yes to a deadline that you know you won’t be able to achieve, as this is setting yourself up for a fail. Plan your time very carefully and stick to it (just like you would if you were working in an office).
A great thing you can do to strengthen your relationships, is to offer help to people. By now you should know what they may need help with. This shows you are being proactive and understanding the business needs. It also shows you are a team player and this will be remembered. Always be aware of what your team members are working on and listen out for any opportunities where you could help them (team meetings are a great idea to help with this). Again, don’t take on too much though – only offer help when you have time to do it,  can really add value and make an impact. 

4.  How can you ask for help in the correct way during your virtual internship?

This can sound (and feel) tricky at first, as you know everyone is busy, but you also know you only have this opportunity for a limited amount of time, so you want to make the most out of it. 
It will depend on how well you know the person you are asking, as to how to approach this. If it is a member of your team, then a call would be fine and a more informal chat. But be aware that you should start the conversation honestly by saying why you are calling. Don’t just try to slip it in to the conversation, as they will see through this and you won’t appear as genuine. 
If it is someone outside of your team, then you may need to organise a time to call them or send the request in an email. However you do it, the content of what you say needs to be the same.
•	Start with a friendly greeting
•	Get straight to the point
•	Explain clearly exactly what you are asking for
•	Provide a brief back story to give it context 
•	Give them any specific information they need
•	Let them know if it is time-critical
This set structure will allow you to remain professional and keep your relationship strong. You are being very clear about your request and this will build trust due to your honesty. A great follow up when you are asking for help from someone, is to offer help in return. Plus, a genuine thank you follow up goes a long way to build and strengthen those relationships. The most powerful thank you is a handwritten card in the post – as it shows that genuine thought and time has gone in to it. Plus, it will help you to stand out from everyone else. 
