Positive Inner Voice Model Answer – this is just an example, as yours will vary due to it’s personal nature of the task.
To think about how to begin to re-train your inner voice to be more helpful and positive (whilst trying to shut out that negative inner voice), it is useful to identify some of the negative things your inner voice already says to you.
Please write down 7 ‘negative inner thoughts’ that you frequently hear in your own head:
1. I will never be good enough.

2. I won’t make anyone proud of me.

3. I give up too easily.

4. I will never make anything of myself, I will never ‘be’ anyone.

5. I may as well stop trying now, as it won’t work.

6. Everyone else is better than me.

7. I knew I wouldn’t be able to cope with this.


Now, imagine a friend was saying the above statements about themselves to you – think about how you would respond to them – what would you say, what words would you use to help them hear it differently and build up their confidence; think about how you would like them to feel differently about what they were saying; think about how you would like them to see themselves in the same way that you do.

Now challenge yourself to apply those same thoughts to your own ‘inner voice’. Look back at the 7 statements you wrote about yourself and now re-write them, on the next page, to be a positive statement, so that every time you hear those thoughts again, you can mentally replace them with these new thoughts (just like you helped your ‘friend’ do):

My positive thoughts

1. I am good at what I do and I always give it my best.


2. I am proud of myself for what I have achieved. 


3. I will always do my best even when it’s very hard.


4. I will achieve what I set out to achieve, as I know I can do it – I am worth it. 


5. I believe in myself and I can make it work, I may need to try a few different ways to achieve it, but I know I will do it. 

6. I am the very best version of me that I can be, I can’t be anyone else as that role is already taken by someone else.

7. This may feel hard, but I know I can cope and I will look back at how well I coped and be proud of myself. 
